README.md, before:

<div align="center">
  <img align="center" src=".github/images/tv.png" />
  <h1 align="center">Batch Conversion Tool for TinyTV® 2</h1>
  <p align="center">
    A tool for mass converting video files for the highly recommended
    <a href="https://tinycircuits.com/products/tinytv-2">TinyTV® 2</a> device
    by <a href="https://tinycircuits.com">Tiny Circuits</a>!
  </p>
</div>

<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->

## Index <a name="index"></a>

- [Intro](#intro)
  - [Official Tool](#official-tool)
  - [Batch Conversion Tool](#batch-tool)
  - [Preview](#preview)
- [User Guide](#user-guide)
  - [Running (Windows)](#running-windows)
- [Development / Code Contribution](#local-development)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Workspace Setup](#workspace-setup)
  - [Build / Run](#build-run)
- [License(s)](#licenses)
- [Wrapping Up](#wrapping-up)

<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->

## Intro

The **Batch Conversion Tool** is designed to simplify the process of preparing
video files for the TinyTV® 2 device. It offers a user-friendly interface and
powerful features to help you convert and manage your video files with ease.

<p align="right">[ <a href="#index">Index</a> ]</p>

<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->

### **Official Tool** <a name="official-tool"></a>

Before we begin, you should know there's an official
[TinyTV® 2 Converter][url-tinytv-2-converter-app] app available for use if you
wish to use that one instead.

<p align="right">[ <a href="#index">Index</a> ]</p>

<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->

### **Batch Conversion Tool** <a name="batch-tool"></a>

**Batch Conversion Tool** is an open-source application built with the same
purpose as the [TinyTV® 2 Converter][url-tinytv-2-converter-app] app but
allows you to **batch** convert many video files at once. It also includes
extra features to make preparing your videos easier, such as:

- Converting an entire list of files in sequence.
- Drastically reduce the file size, and display limits for the FAT32 file system.
- Choose from different video quality output settings.
- Automatically prepend filenames with channel numbers for easy sorting.
- Merge multiple videos into a single output file.

#### Preview(s) <a name="preview"></a>

**"Convert" Tab Preview:**

![Convert Tab Screenshot][img-screenshot-01]

**"Combine" Tab Preview:**

![Combine Tab Screenshot][img-screenshot-02]

<p align="right">[ <a href="#index">Index</a> ]</p>

<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->

## User Guide <a name="user-guide"></a>

### Running (Windows) <a name="running-windows"></a>

Go to the [releases page][url-releases] and download the latest
`TinyTV2.Batch.Conversion.Tool.exe` file. Once downloaded, run the executable
to start the application.

<p align="right">[ <a href="#index">Index</a> ]</p>

<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->

## Development / Code Contribution <a name="local-development"></a>

You can contribute to the development of **TinyTV® 2 Batch Conversion Tool** by 
following these steps:

### Prerequisites <a name="prerequisites"></a>

1. Make sure you have `Python` installed and accessible in your `PATH`:

   [python.org/downloads](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

   Test with:

   ```bash
   python --version
   # or
   py --version
   ```

2. Make sure you have `ffmpeg` installed one of two ways:

   - Install locally and accessible in your `PATH`: [ffmpeg.org/download](https://www.ffmpeg.org/download.html) and/or

   - Binaries (optional): [gyan.dev/ffmpeg/builds](https://www.gyan.dev/ffmpeg/builds/) (placed in `bin/`)

<p align="right">[ <a href="#index">Index</a> ]</p>

<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->

### Workspace Setup <a name="workspace-setup"></a>

1. Bootstrap `pip`:

   ```bash
   py -m ensurepip --upgrade
   py -m pip install --upgrade pip setuptools wheel
   ```

2. Install third party dependencies:

   ```base
   py -m pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. If you don't want to install `ffmpeg` locally, place the `ffmpeg.exe` binary in the `bin/` folder. Test:

   ```bash
   cd bin
   ffmpeg -version
   ```

<p align="right">[ <a href="#index">Index</a> ]</p>

<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->

### Build / Run <a name="build-run"></a>

To run the application directly from root for development (requires local ffmpeg or from bin):

   ```bash
   py main.py
   ```

To build `dist/main.exe` for production (requires ffmpeg in bin):

   ```bash
   py -m PyInstaller --onefile ^
      --windowed ^
      --noconfirm ^
      --name TinyTV2BatchConversionTool ^
      --icon=icon.ico ^
      --add-data "bin;bin" ^
      main.py
   ```

<p align="right">[ <a href="#index">Index</a> ]</p>

<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->

### Linting and Formatting

To ensure code quality and consistency, this project uses the following tools:

- **[Black](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)**: An opinionated code formatter for Python.
- **[Flake8](https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/)**: A linting tool for Python that checks for style guide enforcement.

Run the following command to format your code with Black:

```bash
py -m black .
```

Run the following command to check your code with Flake8:

```bash
py -m flake8
```

## License(s) <a name="licenses"></a>

This project is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial
4.0 International License. See the [license][url-license] file for more
information.

This software uses FFmpeg licensed under the [LGPLv2.1][url-license-lgpl] license. Source code for FFmpeg is available at [https://ffmpeg.org](https://ffmpeg.org).

`SPDX-License-Identifiers: CC-BY-NC-4.0, LGPLv2.1`

> ![Info][img-info] The application code is licensed under `CC-BY-NC-4.0`. FFmpeg is licensed separately under `LGPLv2.1`. These licenses apply independently.

<p align="right">[ <a href="#index">Index</a> ]</p>

<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->

## Wrapping Up <a name="wrapping-up"></a>

Thank you to Tiny Circuits for the [TinyTV® 2](https://tinycircuits.com/products/tinytv-2), it's a fun device! If you have any
questions, please let me know by [opening an issue here][url-new-issue].

| Type                                                                      | Info                                                           |
| :------------------------------------------------------------------------ | :------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <img width="48" src=".github/images/ng-icons/email.svg" />                | webmaster@codytolene.com                                       |
| <img width="48" src=".github/images/simple-icons/github.svg" />           | https://github.com/sponsors/CodyTolene                         |
| <img width="48" src=".github/images/simple-icons/buymeacoffee.svg" />     | https://www.buymeacoffee.com/codytolene                        |
| <img width="48" src=".github/images/simple-icons/bitcoin-btc-logo.svg" /> | bc1qfx3lvspkj0q077u3gnrnxqkqwyvcku2nml86wmudy7yf2u8edmqq0a5vnt |

Fin. Happy programming friend!

Cody Tolene

<p align="right">[ <a href="#index">Index</a> ]</p>

<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->

<!-- IMAGE REFERENCES -->

[img-info]: .github/images/ng-icons/info.svg
[img-screenshot-01]: .github/images/screenshots/screen_01.png
[img-screenshot-02]: .github/images/screenshots/screen_02.png
[img-warn]: .github/images/ng-icons/warn.svg

<!-- LINK REFERENCES -->

[url-license-lgpl]: /LICENSE-LGPL.md
[url-license]: /LICENSE.md
[url-new-issue]: https://github.com/CodyTolene/tiny-tv-2-batch-conversion-tool/issues
[url-releases]: https://github.com/CodyTolene/tiny-tv-2-batch-conversion-tool/releases
[url-tinytv-2-converter-app]: https://tinytv.us/TinyTV-Converter-App/
[url-tinytv-2]: https://tinycircuits.com/products/tinytv-2

Commit message:

v1.2.0
* Update audio rate to 10000

* Dont disable combine button if exceeded. Just warn.

* Add current progress of SoC

* Add current progress of SoC

* Fix up the convert tab.

* Wrap up combine tab.

* Screenshot updates.

* Follow up to copilot suggestions.

README.md, after:

<div align="center">
  <img align="center" src=".github/images/tv.png" />
  <h1 align="center">Batch Conversion Tool for TinyTV® 2</h1>
  <p align="center">
    A tool for mass converting video files for the highly recommended
    <a href="https://tinycircuits.com/products/tinytv-2">TinyTV® 2</a> device
    by <a href="https://tinycircuits.com">Tiny Circuits</a>!
  </p>
</div>

<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->

## Index <a name="index"></a>

- [Intro](#intro)
  - [Official Tool](#official-tool)
  - [Batch Conversion Tool](#batch-tool)
  - [Preview](#preview)
- [User Guide](#user-guide)
  - [Running (Windows)](#running-windows)
- [Development / Code Contribution](#local-development)
  - [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
  - [Workspace Setup](#workspace-setup)
  - [Build / Run](#build-run)
- [License(s)](#licenses)
- [Wrapping Up](#wrapping-up)

<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->

## Intro

The **Batch Conversion Tool** is designed to simplify the process of preparing
video files for the TinyTV® 2 device. It offers a user-friendly interface and
powerful features to help you convert and manage your video files with ease.

<p align="right">[ <a href="#index">Index</a> ]</p>

<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->

### **Official Tool** <a name="official-tool"></a>

Before we begin, you should know there's an official
[TinyTV® 2 Converter][url-tinytv-2-converter-app] app available for use if you
wish to use that one instead.

<p align="right">[ <a href="#index">Index</a> ]</p>

<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->

### **Batch Conversion Tool** <a name="batch-tool"></a>

**Batch Conversion Tool** is an open-source application built with the same
purpose as the [TinyTV® 2 Converter][url-tinytv-2-converter-app] app but
allows you to **batch** convert many video files at once. It also includes
extra features to make preparing your videos easier, such as:

- Converting an entire list of files in sequence.
- Drastically reduce the file size, and display limits for the FAT32 file system.
- Choose from different video quality output settings.
- Automatically prepend filenames with channel numbers for easy sorting.
- Merge multiple videos into a single output file.

#### Preview(s) <a name="preview"></a>

**"Convert" Tab Preview:**

![Convert Tab Screenshot][img-screenshot-01]

**"Combine" Tab Preview:**

![Combine Tab Screenshot][img-screenshot-02]

<p align="right">[ <a href="#index">Index</a> ]</p>

<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->

## User Guide <a name="user-guide"></a>

### Running (Windows) <a name="running-windows"></a>

Go to the [releases page][url-releases] and download the latest
`TinyTV2.Batch.Conversion.Tool.exe` file. Once downloaded, run the executable
to start the application.

<p align="right">[ <a href="#index">Index</a> ]</p>

<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->

## Development / Code Contribution <a name="local-development"></a>

You can contribute to the development of **TinyTV® 2 Batch Conversion Tool** by 
following these steps:

### Prerequisites <a name="prerequisites"></a>

1. Make sure you have `Python` installed and accessible in your `PATH`:

   [python.org/downloads](https://www.python.org/downloads/)

   Test with:

   ```bash
   python --version
   # or
   py --version
   ```

2. Make sure you have `ffmpeg` installed one of two ways:

   - Install locally and accessible in your `PATH`: [ffmpeg.org/download](https://www.ffmpeg.org/download.html) and/or

   - Binaries (optional): [gyan.dev/ffmpeg/builds](https://www.gyan.dev/ffmpeg/builds/) (placed in `bin/`)

<p align="right">[ <a href="#index">Index</a> ]</p>

<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->

### Workspace Setup <a name="workspace-setup"></a>

1. Bootstrap `pip`:

   ```bash
   py -m ensurepip --upgrade
   py -m pip install --upgrade pip setuptools wheel
   ```

2. Install third party dependencies:

   ```base
   py -m pip install -r requirements.txt
   ```

3. If you don't want to install `ffmpeg` locally, place the `ffmpeg.exe` binary in the `bin/` folder. Test:

   ```bash
   cd bin
   ffmpeg -version
   ```

<p align="right">[ <a href="#index">Index</a> ]</p>

<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->

### Build / Run <a name="build-run"></a>

To run the application directly from root for development (requires local ffmpeg or from bin):

   ```bash
   py main.py
   ```

To build `dist/main.exe` for production (requires ffmpeg in bin):

   ```bash
   py -m PyInstaller --onefile ^
      --windowed ^
      --noconfirm ^
      --name TinyTV2BatchConversionTool ^
      --icon=icon.ico ^
      --add-data "bin;bin" ^
      main.py
   ```

<p align="right">[ <a href="#index">Index</a> ]</p>

<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->

### Linting and Formatting

To ensure code quality and consistency, this project uses the following tools:

- **[Black](https://black.readthedocs.io/en/stable/)**: An opinionated code formatter for Python.
- **[Flake8](https://flake8.pycqa.org/en/latest/)**: A linting tool for Python that checks for style guide enforcement.

Run the following command to format your code with Black:

```bash
py -m black .
```

Run the following command to check your code with Flake8:

```bash
py -m flake8
```

## License(s) <a name="licenses"></a>

This project is licensed under the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial
4.0 International License. See the [license][url-license] file for more
information.

This software uses FFmpeg licensed under the [LGPLv2.1][url-license-lgpl] license. Source code for FFmpeg is available at [https://ffmpeg.org](https://ffmpeg.org).

`SPDX-License-Identifiers: CC-BY-NC-4.0, LGPLv2.1`

> ![Info][img-info] The application code is licensed under `CC-BY-NC-4.0`. FFmpeg is licensed separately under `LGPLv2.1`. These licenses apply independently.

<p align="right">[ <a href="#index">Index</a> ]</p>

<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->

## Wrapping Up <a name="wrapping-up"></a>

Thank you to Tiny Circuits for the [TinyTV® 2](https://tinycircuits.com/products/tinytv-2), it's a fun device!

**Note:** This tool is a rapid prototype built with assistance from an AI pair-programming tool to speed up development. The goals of this project are primarily:

- To create a useful tool for TinyTV® 2 users.
- To learn how to build quick Windows desktop applications with Python and Tkinter.
- To be able to create more ffmpeg-based wrapper tools in the future for other devices.
- To effectively put together linting and formatting tools for Python projects.
- To learn how to package and build standalone Windows executables with PyInstaller.

If you find this tool useful, please consider supporting my work. Your support helps me continue developing and maintaining this project. If you have any questions, suggestions, or issues, please feel free to reach out or open an issue on the [GitHub repository][url-new-issue].

| Type                                                                      | Info                                                           |
| :------------------------------------------------------------------------ | :------------------------------------------------------------- |
| <img width="48" src=".github/images/ng-icons/email.svg" />                | webmaster@codytolene.com                                       |
| <img width="48" src=".github/images/simple-icons/github.svg" />           | https://github.com/sponsors/CodyTolene                         |
| <img width="48" src=".github/images/simple-icons/buymeacoffee.svg" />     | https://www.buymeacoffee.com/codytolene                        |
| <img width="48" src=".github/images/simple-icons/bitcoin-btc-logo.svg" /> | bc1qfx3lvspkj0q077u3gnrnxqkqwyvcku2nml86wmudy7yf2u8edmqq0a5vnt |

Fin. Happy programming friend!

Cody Tolene

<p align="right">[ <a href="#index">Index</a> ]</p>

<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->
<!---------------------------------------------------------------------------->

<!-- IMAGE REFERENCES -->

[img-info]: .github/images/ng-icons/info.svg
[img-screenshot-01]: .github/images/screenshots/screen_01.png
[img-screenshot-02]: .github/images/screenshots/screen_02.png
[img-warn]: .github/images/ng-icons/warn.svg

<!-- LINK REFERENCES -->

[url-license-lgpl]: /LICENSE-LGPL.md
[url-license]: /LICENSE.md
[url-new-issue]: https://github.com/CodyTolene/tiny-tv-2-batch-conversion-tool/issues
[url-releases]: https://github.com/CodyTolene/tiny-tv-2-batch-conversion-tool/releases
[url-tinytv-2-converter-app]: https://tinytv.us/TinyTV-Converter-App/
[url-tinytv-2]: https://tinycircuits.com/products/tinytv-2
